HRI 2017 Full Papers

Reviews of submission #2468: "Cross Validation of Emotional Features with
a non-Anthropomorphic Platform"

------------------------ Submission 2468, Review 4 ------------------------

Reviewer:           primary

Expertise

   3  (Knowledgeable)

Meta Review

   == Summary ==

   While there are parts of this work that are interesting, the overall
   paper needs considerable refinement. There are also questions about the
   underlying study designs.

   == Strengths ==

   R1 feels expression in simple robots is an important area. I agree and
   think this is a worthy area of research.

   R1 and R3 like the idea of a re-usable software architecture for
   composing motion
   expressions. I agree and appreciate the attempt to create a generalizable
   approach for adding emotion to robot action. I am a little unclear on how
   the robot knows which emotion to express, but that is not necessarily a
   requirement when expressing emotion.

   R1 liked the concept of stage discretization for structuring robot
   motion.

   == Weaknesses ==

   R1 wanted to see more context and story. R3 asks why non-anthropomorphic
   robots should be able to express emotions. I also felt this paper needs
   refinement and reorganization to improve the message and rationale.

   This is partially related to R1’s concerns about the novelty of the
   work, which I agree with. One telling sign is that the authors only cite
   one paper in 2015 and none in 2016. As can be seen in R1’s review, this
   topic has become an active area recently and I question whether the
   authors are considering the latest discoveries. All but one of the papers
   cited by R1 occurred well before the HRI deadline.

   Another related concern is the relationship of the paper’s focus to the
   study designs. R1 questions why case-study motion path was chosen. R2
   also felt there was poor experimental design and that the research
   questions were unclear. Both R2 and R3 wanted more details about the
   study methods. I had concerns about the methodologies too. For example,
   the authors claim explicit motion parameters are needed for use by
   others, but they used a single robot with small mass and size. I suspect
   the velocity values will be highly influenced by robot size and perceived
   mass. A large robot cart spinning with an angular velocity of 1 rad/s
   will look very different than a small, lightweight robot. This likely,
   strong bias is not captured in the study design nor is this limitation
   mentioned in the discussion.

   R2 and R3 had concerns about writing clarity and poor English. I agree
   with their observations. R2 notes the introduction was written well and I
   also noticed a drop in writing quality after the introduction. This leads
   me to wonder if the authors with better English skills had adequate time
   to review and revise the paper prior to submission.

   == Areas of improvement to focus on in rebuttal ==

   Improve connections to prior work in all aspects of the paper and expand
   the literature review.

   Restructure the paper. Introduce the robot platform used in the studies
   before the study results. Consider emphasizing the Emotion Enrichment
   System.

   Provide more details about the experiment methods and statistical
   analyses to increase reader comfort with the results.

   Spend significant effort on general writing clarity and overall
   refinement. There are numerous problems with this paper for both basic
   English and research writing style. As an example for the latter,
   research using human measures generally use a threshold of p < 0.0001.

Recommendation

   2  (Probably reject: I would argue for rejecting this paper.)


------------------------ Submission 2468, Review 1 ------------------------

Reviewer:           external

Expertise

   

Review

   *Summary*
   Authors use a simple omnidirectional robot to assess how to paramaterize
   motion in order to communicate happiness/anger/fear/sadness along various
   features. They also ran a 'case study' (evaluation) of those features via
   live demonstration, finding reasonable support for their
   parameterizations, but also several cases of confusion. 

   I find the interesting innovations to be in the paper's descriptions of
   the software setup more than the experiments.

   *Strengths*
   -Expression in simple robots is an important area.
   -Attempts to provide re-usable software architecture for composing motion
   expressions.
   -Stage discretization is an innovative idea for structuring robot motion.

   *Weaknesses*
   -Case study experiment lacks social context, what is the story??
   -Novelty of work in question due to lack of contextualization to related
   work (see below).
   -Unclear why case-study motion path was chosen, leaves out the potential
   importance of robot path shape (see additional suggested references).

   *Comments*
   You've found several relevant works to robot body expression and
   summarized them, but the related work section should also motivate why
   you are doing the current experiment, and act as the benchmark so you can
   directly show the improvement (or not) your work provides. 

   Additional relevant (and recent) papers include:
   Jessica R Cauchard, Kevin Y Zhai, Marco Spadafora, and James A Landay.
   2016. Emotion Encoding in Human-Drone Interaction. In 2016 11th ACM/IEEE
   International Conference on Human-Robot Interaction (HRI). IEEE,
   263–270.

   Heather Knight, Ravenna Thielstrom, and Reid Simmons. 2016. Expressive
   path shape: simple motion features that illustrate a robot' s attitude
   toward its goal. In 2016 IEEE International Conference on Intelligent
   Robots and Systems (IROS). IEEE.

   Knight, Heather, and Reid Simmons. "Laban head-motions convey robot
   state: A call for robot body language." In Robotics and Automation
   (ICRA), 2016 IEEE International Conference on, pp. 2881-2888. IEEE, 2016.

   Sirkin, David, Brian Mok, Stephen Yang, and Wendy Ju. "Mechanical
   ottoman: how robotic furniture offers and withdraws support." In
   Proceedings of the Tenth Annual ACM/IEEE International Conference on
   Human-Robot Interaction, pp. 11-18. ACM, 2015.

   Tan, Haodan, John Tiab, Selma Šabanović, and Kasper Hornbæk. "Happy
   Moves, Sad Grooves: Using Theories of Biological Motion and Affect to
   Design Shape-Changing Interfaces." In Proceedings of the 2016 ACM
   Conference on Designing Interactive Systems, pp. 1282-1293. ACM, 2016.


   *Suggestions*
   1. Please re-structure related work to create a story rather than just
   summarize, what is the conclusions we can take from these past works,
   what is left to do, how does your investigation address that gap? 
   2. Include more detail about who the experiment volunteers were (e.g.,
   college students?) and how they were recruited.
   3.Consider emphasizing the Emotion Enrichment system as a unique
   contribution in framing and conclusion of paper, that's probably your
   most unique feature relative to past work, not the emotion training
   cases, which some of both your references and the papers I have included
   also address.

   *Recommendation*
   Although the paper has some weaknesses, they may be possible to address
   by extensively re-framing the related work section and using that work to
   motivate and benchmark the current findings. How did your results compare
   to previous work? What is left to do? Re-iterate your new contributions. 
   Without that context, it is difficult to declare whether this paper
   should be accepted or rejected. (If it is not accepted at HRI, the
   authors may consider emphasizing the Emotion Enrichment System rather
   than the experiments in future submissions.)

Overall Rating

   3  (Overall, I would not argue for or against this paper. I am truly on the fence.)


------------------------ Submission 2468, Review 2 ------------------------

Reviewer:           external

Expertise

   4  (Expert)

Review

   Summary
   The paper attempts to study perception of emotion expression by
   non-anthropomorphic robots. It claims to build on previous experiment
   that is not refereed to, which should be able to assess the
   precise values for linear velocity, angular velocity, oscillation
   angle, direction and orientation that could be used to express
   four basic emotions. Results are inconclusive, showing that observers
   can recognize some emotional expressions better than others.

   Strengths

   Reasonably good introduction.

   Some experimental work was done.



   Weaknesses

   The structure of the manuscript is messy,  research questions -unclear. 

   Experimental design is poor

   English is not clear and the logic of the writing is weak.

   Detailed Comments

   First, the paper refers to non-traceable results and experiments: "These
   features were selected after study emotion projection in robotics, humans
   (i.e. previous work and theatre) and previous case studies. "

   Second,  the experimental design and the research questions  are not
   described well. It is not clear what the participants needed to evaluate.
   Also, what are the 'treatments'?

   Third, the robotic platform is presented after the "experiment" is
   presented. In addition to this experiment, a case study is presented. It
   is not clear what the aim of the experiment or the case study are. During
   the case study more ill-defined concepts as "atomic" actions are
   introduced but not defined. Instead, parameters of the atomic actions are
   introduced to add the mystery. Finally, one can infer from pieces of text
   that the atomic actions seem to be an action of a single extremity:" a
   compound action that is composed by three parallel actions: balance left
   arm, balance right arm, and move body" which make me become even more
   puzzled since the just introduced robot has no arms at all, it is a
   omni-directional mobile robot.

   I find at this moment too early to list all weak points of the
   manuscript, since they are so many. It seem that the manuscript is in a
   very early stage of writing ( I think also too initial and exploratory
   stage of research too). Once the authors  rewrite the text in a clear and
   structured way they can attempt to resubmit the paper
   to some adequate conference. At this form the paper is by far not
   acceptable.

Overall Rating

   1  (Definite reject: I would argue strongly for rejecting this paper.)


------------------------ Submission 2468, Review 3 ------------------------

Reviewer:           external

Expertise

   4  (Expert)

Review

   Summary – The study investigates how a non-anthropomorphic mobile
   platform can express emotions by varying velocity, acceleration,
   orientation and heading. To this end an emotion enrichtment module is
   implemented that can map emotional states to robot behaviours and user
   study is presented to evaluate the recognition rate.

   Strengths and weaknesses:
   + an emotion enrichment module that works independently of an
   (functional) action generation system sounds very useful
   - it is not clear why non-anthropomorphic robots should be able to
   express emotions
   - English language is poor
   - “the experiment” is a pilot study, but many details are missing
   - “the case study” is in fact the main experiment, but again some
   crucial explanations are missing

   Detailed Comments and suggestions for improvement
   The overall quality of the paper is poor. Apart from many spelling and
   grammar mistakes, the structure and argumentation of the paper is hard to
   follow.
   “The experiment” is a pilot study, where participants are exposed to
   20 out of 195 “treatments”. Presumably the authors mean “robot
   behaviours” with varying velocity, oscillation angle, direction and
   orientation. However, this is not specified. Participants indicate to
   what extent these behaviours look like an expression of one of Ekman’s
   basic emotions. The main conclusions from the pilot are reported, but no
   results are shown.
   “The case study” is the main experiment many details are missing. For
   example, the definition of the parameters in Table 2 (direction,
   orientation and angle) are not made explicit. Nor is it clear why these
   setting are the best choices for certain emotions). Also, there are no
   oscillations anymore, whereas this would seem a good channel for
   expressing them?
   It is not explained how the emotions modify simple actions. For example,
   when moving from a->b, does adding fear let the robot drive backwards? 
   The hypotheses in the introduction are not hypotheses at all, but
   statements about expected effects. The underlying assumptions about why
   these effects should occur is missing.
   It does not make sense to me to include excitement and tenderness. They
   are not basic emotions according to Ekman and they are not being
   expressed by the robot.

   From the description of Figure 5 I understand that the simple action
   sequence was always the same? The generation of simple actions is not
   explained clearly.
   At the bottom of page 5, second column it is stated that not every
   emotion is shown an equal number of times. This makes the design
   unbalanced and the results are hard to interpret.
   The statistical analysis is awkward at places. Given the unbalanced
   design, why is the number of times each emotion is recognized
   approximately equal in table 3? Were people guessing? The confusion
   matrix is analysed using a Fisher exact test on different pairs of
   emotions, but what data is the test applied to and to answer which
   question? The same goes for Pearson’s Chi-squared test. The authors
   should clearly specify which question they are trying to answer and how
   the statistical test can answer this question.
   Table 7: to which question is this an answer?

   Recommendation
   Although the paper has some interesting ideas, but in its current state
   it is not publishable. The authors should at least improve the English,
   add the missing information and improve the statistical analyses.

   Numeric Evaluation — 2

Overall Rating

   2  (Probably reject: I would argue for rejecting this paper.)



